Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture and a few more to follow we are going to be looking at inheritance there not the
kind of inheritance that your granny leaves you some old railway bonds but something that's even more
valuable maybe it's inheritance within the Python programming language.
So when writing and using classes it is not necessary every time to start from scratch.
If the class you're writing is a specialized version of another class you wrote you can use inheritance
when one class inherits from another.
It automatically takes on all the attributes and methods of the first class.
So as you can see here on the left hand side of my screen I have our e-reader class open and I have
everything down for a method.
The Increment library count and I deleted the code after that.
But I have everything down there.
So when using inheritance the original class is called the parent and this is going to be our parent
class for this lecture.
And the new class is called the child class the child class inherits every attribute and method from
its parent class.
But it is also free to define new attributes and methods of its own.
So now let's look at how we would use the inat method for a child class.
The first task has been creating an instance from a child class is assigned values to all attributes
in the parent class to do this the init method for a child class needs help from its parent class.
So let's look at the example let's model and the e-reader and this time let's use the Kindle Fire because
that's an evolution of what we've been doing so far.
Let's start by making a simple version of the Kindle Fire class which does everything the e-reader class
does.
So how we do that we go.
Class that should be a small c sorry class Kindle Fire and it's going to is a child of a parent which
is e-reader.
There we go.
E-reader now that's out in description.
Represents aspects of an e-reader
specific to a Kindle Fire.
So if anybody is unfamiliar with a Kindle Fire have a google of it but it's like the original Amazon
Kindle which was completely black and white book only model.
But the Kindle Fire has a color screen Internet capabilities.
So it's like a simple iPad or tablet device.
And I just want to say a couple actually a bit here actually Kindle Fire Dan have that then initialize
attributes.
And I forgot an IDer is a comment so I won't make any odds but it's nice to have our spelling correct
then initialize attributes
specific
to a Kindle Fire.
OK.
And close our comments so represent aspect of an e-reader specific to a Kindle Fire.
And then we will initialize those attributes.
And how do we do that.
Well we start off with V.F. underscore underscore and I T.
And what do we have.
Well like we said we have to give it the attributes of its parent so that is self seld self make model
backlights
battery screen type.
There we go Kloser brackets.
Next what we have.
Well we have to add in our comment and our comment is exactly what this method is going to do.
It's going to initialize attributes
but it kinda fire.
There we go.
Now here's something new.
It's a new function and it's called the super function quite quite a name to live up to.
So super P E or brackets does underscore underscore I N I T.
And then we put in the same attributes as we just did.
So make model and don't worry we're going to go through is now in detail and we'll see what everything
is backlights battery screen type.
There we go.
OK.
Now what we want to do is just have back a couple of there after you hit enter and we want to call my
kindle fire.
So we want to create a new variable.
My Kindle Fire.
So this is a very equals let's call our class Kindle Fire is our class.
And what is the Kindle Fire.
Well it's made by Amazon's.
That's the make and Zed.
Oh and maybe Amazon and because we're going to pass these into our parameters.
We need to put them in quotes.
Now the model we already know this but it's the Kindle Fire.
There we go for fire back like let's just say it has a backlog which it obviously does because of the
color screen.
Backlights
comment Patry while it has a 12 hour battery life 12 hour battery life and let's just go simple with
the screen it's a color screen.
I'm going to spell this American way for my American friends Kulish green.
There we go.
Now what we want to do.
Well we want to print
my Kindle Fire print my kindle fire.
We have to choose a method now to print it and we want to printed in the format of get e-reader name
which is a method from its parent from our parent class get e-reader name brackets.
Now let's CD the output that gives us and let's go back to this gives us an error.
Why does it give us an error.
Because this indent is one indent too many.
OK so we run it again.
Correct at the end then and there we go.
Amazon Kindle Fire back like 12 hours battery color screen to 12 hours battery life.
There we go color screen.
OK.
So let's recap on what we have just done throughout the very top of our program here.
We have our e-reader class.
So when we create a child class the parent class must be part of the current file.
I must appear before the child class in the file.
So that's why we start off with our class e-reader which is our parent now down here at line 34 we defined
the child class.
Kindle Fire the name of the parent class must be included in the brackets in the definition of the child
class which we have don't buy including e-reader.
At 9:37 we have the init method which takes the information required to make an e-reader instance then
add line 41.
We have what's called the superfunction which is a special function that helps pite make connections
between the parent and the child class.
This line is plankton to call the init method from Kindle Fires parent class which gives a Kindle Fire
instance all the attributes of its parent class.
So very handy we don't have to write all the methods of our parent the name Super comes from a convention
of calling the parent class a superclass and the child class a subclass just in case you're wondering
to test whether inheritance is working properly can create a Kindle Fire with the same information we
provided when creating a regular e-reader which we've just done had line for before we make an instance
of Kindle Fire and store it in my kindle fire.
This line Townsley in that method defined in Kindle Fire which in turn tells him to call the init method
defined in our parent class we divide the arguments Amazon Kindle Fire back like 12 hour battery and
color screen to create the insets the Kindle Fire incense works just like an instance of e-reader.
So now we can begin defining attributes and methods specific to the Kindle Fire such as Internet capabilities
the ability to add apps like Facebook or Twitter.
And we look at doing that in the next lecture.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.